In this lesson we will learn about the HTML element named nav nav stands for navigation and we can use
the navigation element to Houghs a major block of navigation links which allow users to hop around from
page to page within a web site in front of you is an example page from an earlier lesson in the course
for this lesson.
Our goal is to use the nav element to add a set of links towards the bottom of this header area.
So let's dive right in.
We'll jump over to our text editor and here is the header section that we were just pointing out.
So underneath these two elements will create a nav element.
Now let's take a look at the industry standard way of including links in the nav element.
The most common structure is to use an unordered list and then use a list item for each link within
the list item will create an anchor or a link which is the element and the first link will be a link
to the home page.
Now the file that we're currently editing in our text editor is the home page and the name of this file
is indexed but h t l.
So that's what we want to include inside the ref attribute for this link index dot HTML.
So that's it take a look at the folder where that file lives indexed on HTML.
We can see that there are also files named about incontact.
So those are the other links that we want to include in our navigation.
So it will create a nother list item and within that we'll create a link to the about h TNL file or
page
within the Start Tag and the end tag of the anchor element is where we include the text that users can
click on to follow the link.
And finally we'll create a third list item to link to the Contact Us page and then close out the anchor
element.
And if I save and refresh in the web browser we can see that we now have a navigation section in our
header.
If I click on the About Us link it takes us to the About Us page.
If I click back and click on Contact Us it takes us to that page.
However you'll notice that on the about us and contact us page the navigation is not appearing we need
to manually copy and paste that into those pages.
So let me open up the about that each TNL file and we'll paste in our navigation into the header element
.
And let's do the same thing for the contact.
But each to your mail page here's the letter.
So within that we'll paste in our now element.
Now if we refresh in the browser we can see that we can click and very quickly navigate between the
three pages in our Web site.
And this is the entire purpose of the Nav element.
You don't need to wrap every single link within your page in a nav element.
So for example if we had a link in one of our articles they don't need to be in an AB element and even
if we had a link or two in the footer they don't necessarily need to be in an AB element either.
We use the Gnab element for primary blocks of navigation links.
So if in the footer we have five links two very important pages throughout the Web site.
Maybe that does qualify as a nav element.
However if it's only two links to your privacy policy and your terms and conditions then that isn't
really a way to navigate the Web site.
So really the name of the element is self-explanatory.
Whenever you have a menu that is used for navigating you can use the nav element.
It's another tool to increase the accessibility and semantic richness of your web pages.
I'll see you in the next lesson.